Our approach has been to not
overengineer it.
>> So we like to let goose learn from doing
things. So we also have this feature
called recipes where
>> if you try a a workflow with goose and
you really like it, you can bake it into
a sort of script or or what we call a
recipe and then share it out with your
with your teammates. We find that goose
is more capable than if you tried to
figure out how to make a tool. goose
friendly.
>> So, it figures things out in surprising
ways that you wouldn't think of as a
human.
>> Interesting.
>> And it does it quicker than you might do
it as well, which is quite surprising.
[Music]
Today on training data, we're joined by
block CTO Danji Prasana. Earlier this
year, Block released Goose, which is an
open- source extensible agent that can
do work on your computer for you. Goose
is used widely for everything from Jack
Dorsey's first rev of Bit Chat to
non-engineers vibe coding side projects
to the Goose team actually writing the
vast majority of net new code for the
goose codebase itself. Talk about
recursion.
In this episode, Danji unpacks for us
the role of tool use, MCP, and agent
middleware in enabling AI to really have
an impact and gives us a peak into how
AI is transforming block both as a
product and as a company. Enjoy the
show.
>> Well, we're delighted to have you here
today, Dunie, who's the CTO at Block.
>> Thank you for having me. First of all,
>> I have a thoughtprovoking question to
get us going. There's a lot of talk
about the disruption that AI is going to
cause. We at Block primarily focus on
providing financial services and
software to consumers and to businesses
largely small medium-sized enterprises.
And there's a lot of talk about how AI
might completely disrupt that that you
wouldn't need a company like Block to
exist anymore. So my question to you is
is AI friend or is AI foe?
>> Well, I have two answers to that.
First of all, I think like any new
technology, you can think of nuclear
energy as an analog. It really depends
on who is developing it and to what
purpose they're putting it. So nuclear
medicine saves lives. Nuclear energy can
be revolutionary for us, but if you
build bombs with it, it's terrible. So I
think AI is very similar in that regard.
Like it has a lot of potential to do a
lot of good. We've already seen that
with AlphaFold and all of the great
things uh similar to that, but it can
also be used for some nefarious things.
So, I think that's one that's my answer
to friend or foe. It really depends on
who's holding it and what their purpose
is. But I was thinking about it
specifically for us at Block.
>> Yeah. You know, is it going to enable
disruptors to usurp our position or can
we at Block successfully wield AI to
strengthen our business?
Yeah, I mean I obviously believe that
it's going to be good for us. Uh Ive
always thought of Block not as a
financial services company but as a
technology company. So we've always been
early to embrace whatever new technology
there is and then figure out how best to
serve our customers with it. So I don't
see it as a threat. I mean it's only a
threat if we are asleep at the wheel and
not doing the things that we're used to
doing. Uh so yeah going all the way back
to the very first card reader that was
powered by uh the velocity of the card
going through the reader which was
incredibly clever innovation on the
technology side all the way through all
all our work with blockchain and we've
always embraced new technology. So I
think it's really good for us. It's
really good for our customers. We're
already seeing the benefits there.
>> Yeah.
>> So, you've been with Block now for 10
years. You joined in January 2015.
>> That was my most recent stint, but I
actually my first commit to the GitHub
repo and Block goes back to 2011. So,
>> Oh, I didn't realize that.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Wow, that's amazing. But, but you
weren't a full-time employee at the
company.
>> I did a couple of stints and then I came
back full-time in 2013.
>> Oh, that's interesting. Okay. So, I I
didn't have that full history. That's
really interesting. So I've been
involved with the company a little bit
longer than you have. I joined the board
at the end of 2010. So it's been a long
time. So maybe for some of the listeners
out there, uh it' be useful to level set
a little bit. Um what does block do
today? What is the full range of
products and services and and as CTO you
obviously have an incredibly wide view
of all the activities at the company?
>> Yeah. Just to help us understand what
all the businesses we're involved with
today that matter.
>> Sure. Absolutely. Uh our two main
pillars are Square and Cash App. So,
Square serves uh merchants and sellers
and Cash App serves consumers as a
financial services app. Uh and they're
both growing as ecosystems. And then on
top of that, we also have Tidal, which
is our music streaming service. Uh and
we have a number of open- source
initiatives uh in addition to that,
including BitKey, which is a new
initiative that helps you securely hold
Bitcoin. And we just launched rig which
is our uh mining hardware. So you can
install mining rigs in your home and it
runs Bitcoin for you.
>> That seems unusual. Why why are we doing
Bitcoin mining rigs?
>> Well, we had a thesis that we can build
an incredibly powerful mining rig that
competes with the best in the industry
and is also energy and costefficient.
And uh I believe we've done that with
rig. So it's an an impressive first
attempt. Uh but yeah, Jack, our founder,
believes very strongly in Bitcoin and
the power of making it everyday money.
And this is one of our attempts to
advance it.
>> You know, one of the secrets about the
AI infra industry is that many of the
top AI infrastructure v vendors used to
be crypto mining providers, right? So I
see uh I see it act two for your crypto
mining big business.
>> Yeah, look it's uh it's not gone
unnoticed and we have talked about that
and dual use sort of technology in that
sense.
>> Uh but no, we're focused on
>> the right specs though, right? To
>> yeah it's I think it it veers off the
core mission as well which uh rig has
done a great job at chasing. So we want
to focus on that for now. You mentioned
that Jack has driven a lot of the kind
of Bitcoin uh focus at Block. I'm
curious about who's driving the AI
agenda at Block. It seems like you guys
are doing so much on the AI side. Is
that also a you know personal passion
project of Jack's and and andor is it
yours or is it everybody at the company?
>> Yeah, I mean I would say Jack and I are
pretty aligned on that one. So before I
took on this role, uh I wrote a long
email to Jack saying, "We really need to
invest in AI and we need to do it
centrally and we need to transform our
whole company into doing it." And he
100% agreed and um he flew out to Sydney
and spent two days with me and we talked
it through up and down. So, I would say
it's both of us being aligned and being
in sync about what what was necessary
and and how to push AI and we've Yeah, I
think we've done a pretty good job of
getting us off the ground there.
>> Yeah,
>> we have a long history of implementing
machine learning at the company.
>> Correct.
>> So, how do you how do you distinguish
between what used to be called machine
learning or what is now called AI and is
it a ship versus a boat and there's a
blurry line and you're not quite sure
where it crosses over or how do you
frame those two different concepts?
Yeah, I think that generative AI is the
difference, right? It's it's deep
learning and the ability to do more than
just classification or clustering or
those common machine learning use cases
that that traditional ML uh was aimed
at. And our use of ML at block was
always on the risk side. So we would
always focus on fraud on spam and abuse
and things like that. And I think we got
really good at it. But when you start to
look at what deep learning can do,
you're opening up the world to so much
more, to literally every single vertical
and function that we have at the company
and beyond. So that's where I'd draw the
line. It's basically deep learning
versus traditional ML.
>> What was on that email you sent, Jack?
What was the AI manifesto for how you
become AI native?
>> Uh, I said hire someone, not me. who can
be CTO and get our company transformed
to using AI because we're well behind
the eight-ball and we need to get ahead
>> and he sort of followed half of that
advice and the other half he did end up
hiring me. So
>> no good deed goes unpunished.
>> What were the other components of the
manifesto? Like h and I guess you
mentioned it was kind of almost
centrally driven to make the
organization more AI first. Can you talk
more about how how you drove that? Yeah,
we did it sort of progressively.
Initially, we invested in a number of
special projects bets. So, we had maybe
two to five engineers working on eight
different projects. And some of these
projects were ideas that I had had, some
of the projects were things that we had
already worked on or hackw week ideas,
things like that. And we funded them and
pushed them along. And then
progressively we started to unwind our
GM structure which was I think keeping a
lot of the value of Square and Cash App
and Title locked away within those
silos. And we brought them all together
and actually adding our platform teams
to that which were ironically separate
from all of these uh made it that much
more powerful and gave us a really
strong springboard. So as we sort of
centralized each part of the company
into a functional org structure, we
drove engineering excellence, technical
excellence and we could unify our
policies. A lot of things just fell in
line
>> and um the transformation yeah it's
proceeding at pace now. Yeah,
>> it's really interesting. At different
points in time, organizational design
serves different purposes. And there was
a time where our GM structure seemed to
have the right merits for the problems
we needed to solve at the time. And it
didn't in this case because
centralization uh and the sort of
functional organization is the way that
we're succeeding right now.
>> Yeah, you're exactly right. It's like
courses for courses as they say. And I
was part of the era when we spun out
into a GM structure. So when we went
from purely functional. So I was a head
of engineering for Cash App from when we
were about 10 engineers to 200 plus. And
uh I worked very closely with Brian who
was our Cash App CEO and Jack to help
create this separation. And a lot of the
reasoning behind that was giving Cash
App the autonomy and the focus to go and
build what it was after and not muddy
the mission with what Square's mission
was and and keep that crystall in as
well. M
>> so yeah it's and I think but in this era
where you need to go deep in technology
and where seismic shifts in the industry
are happening on a weekly basis
having this depth and singular focus
singular organizational focus is really
important and Jack was a huge proponent
of that view as well. Have you had to
embrace a different almost product
building mindset uh to build around LLMs
and generative AI compared to how your
developers are used to working?
>> Well, I would say there are couple of
different approaches that we've tried.
There's no panacea to this. There's no
sort of simple answer to getting AI into
our workforce.
We've tried the approach of here's every
single AI tool there is. go ahead and
use it. Tell us what's working, what's
not.
And that has had some mixed success.
Goose is used by the majority of the
company now, but they also use several
other AI tools, uh, which I'm very happy
to do. I I think if we can't compete on
Goose with those tools, then, uh, Goose
isn't doing its job. So, we're we're
very happy to provide licenses to any
other AI tool that, uh, people want to
use.
And I'd say that the other half of it is
we use all of these systems which
provide capabilities to the enterprise.
So be it something as simple as issue
tracking or Salesforce for customer
management
um and everything in between. But using
AI with those tools is something that
has remained elusive until we started
thinking about this holistically. And so
we looked at block not as here's an
enterprise and here's some tools and
here's our products and here's our
business but everything is a capability
at block. So whether it's the ability to
take payments or move bitcoin or buy
stocks uh or whatever it is issue
invoices listen to music on title and we
treated the corporate side like that
too. So creating an issue, opening a PR,
all of these are just capabilities. And
then we put an agent middleware layer on
top. So effectively goose and all our
UIs are now evolving to talk to our
capabilities through this agent layer.
>> And that's unlocked an enormous amount
of value. Uh we're just at the beginning
of that transition. So I expect it will
continue to unlock a lot more utility
over time. you you've used this word
goose. I don't know if all our listeners
are familiar with this. Um it's not on
the menu. It is a capability that we've
built and we've open sourced.
>> Tell us what it is.
>> Yeah, very simply, Goose is a
generalpurpose AI agent. So, it's a
program that you can download and use on
your laptop and it's got a UI. So, you
can either use it on the command line or
in the UI. And it is built using what's
known as the model context protocol or
the MCP which you might have heard of.
Uh and Goose was one of the earliest
adopters of the MCP. And the MCP is just
a fancy way of saying we're going to
create a set of formalized wrappers for
existing tools or capabilities and
expose them to your AI agent. Uh and
Goose has been able to connect to all of
our systems. So all of our existing
systems be it Gmail or Google Docs be it
Square payments any of these things and
orchestrate workflows between them
completely on its own. So you give it a
little prompt and say I want a marketing
report uh of how we did in Q3 and then
it goes away looks in Snowflake pulls
out the data. It might look in Looker,
Tableau, any of these other systems. Uh
it builds a bunch of charts using
programming tools that it knows about
and then it can deliver all of that as a
PDF or Google Doc and even email it for
you. So this is a kind of gives you a
flavor of of the orchestration
capability of goose. But other than that
it was one of the earliest AI agents I
believe and certainly the uh one of the
leading open-source agents
and we helped shape the MCP. In fact,
we're on the initial announcement of the
MCP is uh as a early contributor to the
protocol and we've extended in a couple
of ways and uh yeah continue to see see
the benefits.
>> How did the project come to be and and
who who built it? How long did it take
to build? It's it's it's super cool what
you've built.
>> Yeah, thank you. Well, when I took over
as CTO, I kind of rummaged in the back
closet to see what all the cool ideas
our engineers were cooking up and Goose
was one of them. There were about seven
or eight others and they took different
approaches.
Uh, goose was developed by one of our
engineers who his name is Brad Axen and
he had been developing this thesis that
agents would be the future of how we
realize utility from AI and it turned
out to be right and we ring fenced him
and gave him a team of six or seven
people and they've really punched above
their weight.
>> Why is it called goose?
>> That's a top gun reference. So,
>> okay. It is I wasn't sure.
>> Yeah, Brad looks he's a ringer for
Goose. So,
>> Ah, okay. There's no resemblance.
>> There's a couple Yeah, a couple of
angles. Yeah.
>> Well, it's a great story of how big
companies can find talent and give them
the space to flourish. Uh I sometimes
wonder that bigger companies are more at
risk of infanticide than anything. They
kill their own ideas. Uh and instead I
think block has done an incredible job
whether it was Cash App originally or
now this with Goose giving that space to
individuals to really run with ideas.
>> Yeah, that's exactly right. I think a
lot of it comes down to Jack and the
culture of experimentation that he
promotes. A lot of us carry that same
set of values. The reason I get up to
come in to work is to build something
cool, build something that no one else
has ever built before and realize some
utility or some value from it that
people uh have been struggling with for
for a long time. And there are a lot of
engineers who are like that at our
company. And so it's been a it's been an
incredible journey to see that and just
to have the freedom to ring fence and
let these people go after crazy ideas.
Not a lot of these work out. So like
we've tried many many more things than
we've actually hit home runs with, but
certainly Cash App and Goose are two big
ones. I would add um Bit Key and Proto
to that too. They started as very simple
sort of experiments. Is the way that
people use goose is it almost like if
you're using it in the command line it's
almost like a cloud code and if you're
using it in the application interface
it's almost a chat GPT equivalent. Is
that how I should think about how people
get value out of it?
>> That's a reasonable analogy. I would say
engineers tend to use the command line
because that's what we're used to and we
like working in and it does do a lot
more
>> of the coding style of work on the
command line better.
both workflows or both UIs are
effectively the same underneath. So they
both have access to the same MCPs, the
same capabilities. It's just how they're
surfaced. So some of our users,
especially our nontechnical people, are
much more comfortable with the UI. And
so that's why we have the UI, but they
use it to build software, too. And this
is something that's been an incredible
insight for us. You know, we we never
expected this. We never expected sort of
our sales guy or our financial person to
be writing software dashboards for
themselves, but it turns out it's
possible and it doesn't take long. It
doesn't take much work to do. Uh so
that's been the reason why we have these
two UIs. But at its core, Goose is very
much about pushing autonomy.
So we let the agent loop run as far as
it can. So if it stumbles, if it hits
obstacles, it'll back up and it'll try
another approach. And this is something
that a lot of AI agents learned from us
over time as well. And it turns out if
you take that approach, you can build
some fairly competent software without
knowing anything about coding.
>> I think we'd love to get some examples
both within engineering and outside of
how it's used. Uh but maybe since you
asked uh that or probe that particular
aspect, how do you secure it? If if it
truly is autonomous, how do I know it's
not writing emails that will embarrass
me or accessing data it shouldn't? You
know, is there role based access
control? Um how do you prevent it from
deleting a bunch of stuff that it
shouldn't?
>> So this is something that a lot of goose
users, early adopters were quite worried
about. And in my experience, it's been
that the worry is much greater than the
reality of what happens. It turns out
that goose and the way it's structured,
but LLM's generally, they're designed to
be fairly cautious with tool use. But of
course, beyond that, we have a laddered
safety structure. So you can use goose
in a make me, you know, in the loop for
everything mode. So it won't take any
destructive action unless you say okay
and get to review it or once you get
comfortable with it you can push it to
fully autonomous mode and a lot of
people start to see the value of how how
strong it is when they start to do that
and especially when they realize that
before it does some destructive action
it will sort of let you know even on its
own even when it's not in the safety
mode and give you a chance to say hey
don't do that you can also interrupt it
at any time and say take a different
path which is an interesting way of
using goose that a lot of our engineers
use
>> and finally goose acts as you so it's
not like a wild robot going off running
into our data centers and doing its own
thing it follows the same access
controls that each user has and so it's
blast radius is highly limited to any
actions humans take
>> or do that individual's authorization
level. Correct. So if you're in sales,
you're not going to get access to the
financial information and vice versa
just to give an example. So sort of it's
really a sidekick then for the
individual.
>> That's the way the core goose
application or tool was developed. We've
since spawned many other sort of goose
inspired tools or uh extensions to goose
if you want to think of it that way that
do operate outside you know being on
someone's laptop. So we have this really
cool tool called headless goose and it
runs for example in our CI pipeline and
every time there's a a vulnerability
ticket filed by infosc headless goose
will go and try to fix that
vulnerability automatically but all our
code follows uh very strict audit and
review procedures and so a human has to
agree read everything and be sure that
this is the right fix before it enters
any production environment.
>> Headless goose is a great one. You guys
have too much fun.
>> Don't try to ask an AI to draw it for
you. That's all I'll say.
>> Uh what are some of the most common use
cases that that people are uh building
with Goose?
>> So the most interesting thing that I've
noticed has been non-technical people
finding creative uses for Goose. So
everything from taking a Figma and
saying build this into a functioning
site to I saw someone who was taking a
holiday in Paris who had goose build her
a map of all of the interesting sites in
Paris and do a little traveling salesman
walk for her uh to get through all of
those sites. And this was just an app
that you know she was able to consult
while on her uh on her trip. Uh so all
of those things are great, but people
have also built treasury dashboards,
reporting tools that they can then
one-click share out to any of their
colleagues and a whole host of things in
between. Uh Jack has built Bit Chat,
which is a completely decentralized chat
application, social networking
application that runs on Bluetooth. So
there have been some incredible things
that um people have done with Goose. We
were using bit chat yesterday. It's
amazing. It was built on goose.
>> Yeah, it was the initial version version
was built using goose and I think he's
>> since tried. There have been other
contributions to it. So I'm not sure if
it's all on purpose on goose now, but
it's a it's a big part of it.
>> We also use goose to build goose. So uh
the vast majority of goose's code is
written by goose. And so we almost fully
bootstrapped it. There's still some
human written code in there that's at a
a level of complexity that Goose hasn't
reached yet, but our goal is for it to
be completely autonomous and for each
release for it to rewrite itself 100%
from scratch, but I'd love to share the
craziest thing that I've seen uh someone
build with Goose.
>> It's a little uh hard to stomach. So,
you really have to be strong about this.
Uh, so we have one engineer who's really
into Goose and AI and he's on our goose
team and he has goose watching literally
everything he does and including Slack
or uh Google Meet calls, everything in
between and it intervenes for him in
really surprising ways. So he'll be
talking with one of his colleagues about
a new feature idea and then a few hours
later he'll see that Goose has already
tried to develop this feature and open a
PR for it. He's not asked it. He's not
sat sat there sort of telling it
anything. It's just taken the the
totality of his communications and
understood that this is something he
might want.
It will sort of break him out of a flow
if he's late for a meeting and he needs
some travel time to the office or
something like that. If he communicates
with a colleague or someone else and
says, you know, let's reschedu this,
it'll do it automatically for him on the
calendar. So, there's a lot of like wild
things and that are you have to have the
stomach for it, but uh this is these are
the capabilities that are possible with
AI agents.
>> Oh, the initiative. Now, um, Goose under
the hood uses a variety of different
underlying foundation models. Is that
right?
>> Correct. Yeah, we have, uh, a pluggable
provider system. So, we can essentially
use any LLM that's capable of tool
calling.
>> So, should I think of Goose as a LLM
tool tool use loop? Is that is that the
foundational architecture?
>> I would look at Goose as the arms and
legs. If you think of the LLM as a brain
in a jar.
that's not capable of anything except
chatting with you.
>> Goose gives it arms and legs to go out
and act in the real world.
>> So, it can take all of that thinking
capability, all of that generative text
capability, and apply it to real
systems, digital systems that we use
every day.
>> And are there any tips and tricks for
how you've made your systems, I guess,
primed to be usable by goose? you know,
if you just take your existing GitHub
and Salesforce and kind of connect them
over MCP to Goose, is Goose just
immediately able to, you know, use those
tools effectively or are there things
that you do to make Goose more likely to
be successful?
>> I would say that our approach has been
to not overengineer it.
>> So, we like to let Goose learn from
doing things. So we also have this
feature called recipes where if you try
a workflow with goose and you really
like it, you can bake it into a sort of
script or or what we call a recipe and
then share it out with your with your
teammates.
We find that goose is more capable than
if you tried to figure out how to make a
tool goose friendly. Hm.
>> So, it figures things out in surprising
ways that you wouldn't think of as a
human.
>> Interesting.
>> And it does it quicker than you might do
it as well, which is quite surprising.
>> And with the rate at which LLMs are
evolving, that capability is improving
rapidly as well. So even if we did find
something that we could build some
engineering scaffolding around to make
goose more effective on some particular
tool, the next release of the LLM
provider might just blow that capability
out of the water. It might just do that
on its own.
>> That's so interesting.
>> Yeah, you have to stop thinking like an
engineer. This is one thing that's been
really hard for me to learn, but it's a
worthwhile lesson.
>> And you have to start thinking more like
a data scientist, for lack of a better
term. Yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> That's so interesting. Are different of
the LLMs better at tool use and figuring
out how to use the tools than others?
>> Yeah, absolutely. The uh the big LLM
providers are all pretty good at tool
calling and there's some variation
within them, but they leaprog each other
regularly and they all have native tool
calling support. The open-source
providers have no tool calling support,
so they just generate text. although
some of them are fine-tuned to be better
at tool use. So we have this system
called tool shim which basically
adapts those LLMs to be able to use the
MCP
>> and that's been pretty effective for us
to be able to enable uh open source LLM
models. Could you share the split of
underlying model you know attribution of
uh you know inference calls within goose
is that something you measure? Does it
not matter?
>> We allow people to use whatever they
want. So we have a gateway of I don't
know 10 or 20 models that we support and
then goose itself particularly the open
source goose has got a lot more plugins
to support open source providers
things like Lama and I just built one on
the plane on the way here which was
using uh an embedded model provider
which is blindingly fast on our uh
latest MacBooks.
So there are variety and people use
different ones based on their area of
need. So some people are very privacy
conscious. They don't want a single
token to leave their laptop. So they'll
use Quen and um models like that,
Deepseek.
But I think a lot of coding use cases uh
they like the Claude family of models
and GPT5 is now getting pretty close in
capability as well.
>> Interesting.
So there's been some talk in the
industry that for all the AI
experimentation,
big companies at least are not seeing a
lot of value. You know, there's a report
that came out recently, I think, from
MIT that
>> suggests that very few Fortune 500
companies are truly benefiting from AI.
We've been running it long enough. What
is the real impact for us? Are we really
seeing a change in developer
productivity? Are we seeing faster
shipping cadence? Are developers not
having to do some of the mundane work?
How do we measure it?
We have a metric internally which we
track on a weekly basis and that metric
is very simply manual hours saved by
goose and that's that metric started at
0% and now it's going to hit probably
25% of manual hours saved by the end of
the year. That's our target and we're
pretty close. We're definitely on
target.
That's a complicated metric that takes
into account several qualitative and
quantitative
signals,
but I think there is some truth to the
fact that these LLMs have general
purpose capability. So they're really
good at very general things. So if I
want to know some historical fact about
the Soviet Union, it's going to tell me
that instantly. But if I am a researcher
in neuroscience and u like my wife is
and she
wants to know something very particular
about a type of dementia that she's
researching then it starts to struggle
there and really you when you put people
with a lot of depth in an organization
together they tend to outperform the
basic LLM capability.
So it's identifying what the strengths
of the LLM are and how you apply it to
the enterprise that really is going to
unlock the value and for us I think that
is automating workflows and getting work
about the work all the drudgery manual
things out of the way and that's really
where we've seen most of the progress uh
and then we have another layer of
advancement where which we're trying
that I described earlier with our
agentic middleware layer.
uh that's I think going to unlock a
whole lot more utility for us, but it's
early days. I would say the utility
phase of LLM and agents is still ahead
of us and we're just starting to see
some of that.
>> So if we have 25% saving of manh hours,
>> manual hours saved. Yeah,
>> manual hours saved.
>> Yeah. So eight engineers report 8 to 10
hours per week uh right now with goose
in particular, but with the whole suite
of AI tools and interventions like
headless goose and and other systems
that we're encouraging, I fully expect
that number to keep ticking up. So Block
has a long history of participating in
the open source community, not just
consuming open source software, but
actually giving back. I know that this
is something that matters to Jack a lot
and actually there's a conversation he
and I had a few years ago that inspired
us at Sequoia to start an open source
fellowship where we just give funding to
people who devote their time to building
open source software because it has such
a massive benefit to all of us in the
industry. We made the decision to open
source goose uh and I think the company
does a lot uh in other aspects of open
source. So maybe can you talk more
generally about Block's commitment to
open source development, how we
contribute back and then specifically
the decision to open source goose?
>> Yeah, absolutely. It's very core to our
values. It's in fact how I got hired at
block through my open source
contribution. So I used to work with Bob
Lee who was our CTO before me, our first
CTO.
And
it's been a mainstay for us right from
the beginning. Not just because
these are useful tools that we get to
build on. Pretty much all tech companies
are built on a an open source stack of
some kind whether it's Linux or using
tools like Git and so on.
But also I think the quality of code is
incredibly high in open source. the bar
to keep something open source maintained
and available to the community is is
quite high and there's a certain ethos
and commitment that goes with that and
it has a very long lineage going all the
way back to uh the early days of GNU and
things like that. So it's really
important to us to Jack. It's been a
part of my career right from the
beginning. I've always enjoyed
contributing to open source. I've
learned so much from open source. And
one thing I tell engineers when they say
why would we spend all this time and
give this source code away for free is
well we can
either have our community of 3,000 plus
engineers work on something or we could
have the broader community of 30,000
plus engineers have a look at what we've
worked on and contribute their ideas and
and benefit from that too. So I think as
a core value it's really deeply
ingrained in our DNA and particularly in
Android is where we we've uh had a lot
of success with open source. I would say
our technologies run you know on close
to four billion mobile devices all over
the world. Uh and yeah we we think goose
should follow in that tradition and try
to uplift everyone and show the way for
everyone like it did when we first
released it. What about as it comes to
the models themselves? Do you have a
preference for using open models uh
versus proprietary models?
>> My preference would be for all models to
be open source and open weights. I think
that there's some trickiness to it just
because of the scale involved in that
unlike goose you can't really download
these multi- trillion parameter models
and run them.
But I think the models that are open
source, uh, Quen in particular is lately
one I've seen that's not just really
fast, but really capable with tool use
and improving very fast as well. But
there are a whole host of others and
they're all improving readily. We don't
develop LLMs ourselves, but we do
develop SLMs, like smaller language
models that are focused around customer
service and risk. And we also develop
other frontier models uh that we're
doing purely for research. So we we're
working on a speech-tospech model uh
which we will open source and we'll
publish all our findings. Yeah. So I
think it should all be open source.
Everyone should be able to benefit from
this core technology. It should be like
a utility the way the internet was
imagined to be.
>> And I'm wondering if you believe that
the open models will always be, you
know, just a step a year behind the best
closed models. And if you draw forward
the lines, will we be at a point a few
years from now where the open models
will be fantastic for coding?
>> It's a very difficult question to answer
purely
as it's framed.
My belief is that this way in which
we're using these models is going to
change dramatically. M
>> so so far we have one model maybe like a
couple and we have an AI agent on our
laptop or desktop and it makes calls to
that model and it writes code for us and
that's how goose works as well but I
really think the future of unlocking
coding capability from these models is
uh swarm intelligence so it's not just
one agent doing work with you in a sort
of co-piloty style way it's how do you
unlock 50 instances of the agent or a
100 instances of of goose or or geese if
you will to go off and work with each
other to build fairly complex
applications. So right now our core tool
calling loop probably finishes on
average two to three minutes in in each
turn it takes. But what if it worked for
hours with a whole bunch of other geese?
like could it build complex applications
the size and scale of cash app that's
certainly where I think things are
headed and if we head there then it
doesn't really matter so much how
capable these single model providers are
so the competition may not be as open
source model X as good as closed model Y
but can you leverage open source model X
because it's small enough and it's cheap
enough to on 50, 60, 500, a thousand
copies of
and that accumulated capability is
greater than any single um large
language model. So that that's my uh
that's my bet and I think like you know
a little bit of this comes down to the
philosophical question of can an
infinite number of ants build a
spaceship. I was thinking about
entomology actually as you had this
analogy. I was thinking about colonies
of you know
>> small units that are not that capable
collectively they're capable of so much.
>> So I think there is a question around
that and like it's a worthwhile research
direction. I'm not exactly sure how it
would how it's going to play out. It
could be a hierarchical swarm where you
leverage some large language models like
some very capable models to do the
planning for you or to do the
reintegration for you and you break
things down into very small almost
nanoervices that these simpler models
can um can bite off and and consume. But
yeah, that's a a hot research area for
us. Yeah,
>> that sounds interesting. Wow. What's on
your wish list? I mean, you're at the
forefront of deploying AI at scale in a
major corporation. You know, we touch
tens of millions of consumers and
businesses. We move a lot of money.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh so, it's fun to do it at scale. There
must be things that you wish you had.
>> I always wish I could move faster.
That's always been a a bug bear for me.
like there's a certain responsiveness to
tools
that you use locally that are really
energizing and that let you build
momentum. And so I want that for teams.
I want that for entire projects or
organizational size um initiatives.
And so I think these tools can give us
that there for the very first time we
can start to crack some of the friction
in that. Uh but that's definitely on my
wish list is like how do we move faster
on all fronts? How do we get more
feedback from the data that we do have?
And ultimately all of this stuff is so
we can build useful things for our
customers and our community. Uh so being
able to do that rapidly and iterate
would be would be the dream. Yeah.
>> One of the things uh the audience may
not appreciate is Block is committed to
being a remote first organization.
>> Yeah.
>> Um as our CTO, you live in another
country in a different time zone and our
teams are obviously massively
distributed.
That seems to fly in the face of speed
or maybe it doesn't. So help us debunk
the the myths around how to make a
remote organization effective and what
are the trade-offs that you've
experienced? What are the good and
what's the bad? Look, it's definitely
true that there are trade-offs. I'm not
going to sit here and say remote is
perfect in every way.
I think that there's a very simple fact
about remote that gets missed and that
is there are some employees that we can
only have because we support remote
work. So we have certain employees who
you know they're sort of the leading
lights in their industries uh or in
their fields and they would just never
work for us if we weren't able to employ
them say in Sweden or in in Sydney as
well like there are people other than me
who live in Sydney as well and I think
that from the very beginning especially
at Cash App we've had this DNA of
working distributed
And while you do trade off some amount
of velocity uh and serendipity like
coming together with the water cooler
conversations and those kinds of things
really do accelerate
work.
I think the benefit clearly outweighs
that cost because we're able to hire
these incredible engineers and retain
them for six, seven, eight years in
markets that don't have the same level
of competition as Silicon Valley for
example.
And we were very early to tap into that.
So we were in Australia, we opened our
engineering offices in Australia pretty
much a decade ago and we've never looked
back. And the same is true for many
other offices around the world. So it is
a trade-off, but I think it's a
worthwhile trade-off particularly when
you are talk about the talent involved.
>> I want to ask about whether y'all are
embracing vibes coding. So we were just
with Sebastian from CLA who mentioned,
you know, he'll notice something is off
in the app and he'll go and vibe code it
himself, which uh which is just really
really cool. Um I'm curious, you know,
you mentioned some of your nontechnical
people are now able to spin up a site or
a dashboard on the side. I would imagine
you're not giving them access to the
production uh codebase. Do you think
that changes over time?
>> Well, two questions there. So, let me
unpack them. Vibe coding, that's I think
Goose basically pioneered vibe coding. I
don't think it's too much of a statement
to say that or at least it was very
early in the vibe coding world and uh
>> we were able to experiment with that a
lot. I write code every day and it's all
through goose. it's all through Vibe
Code um or through some of the other AI
agents when I'm evaluating how good they
they go. So, I very rarely manually
write code. I might make some edits or
comment out things here and there just
to see how things work. So, we're
already in the vibe coding era.
>> And are all your engineers doing that as
well? They're not actually manually
writing code anymore.
>> A lot of our engineers are still
transitioning to the vibe coding way of
thinking. I think that it's a difficult
proposition
the more complex the code goes and this
is why I think it's more effective to
vibe code these smaller tools like
dashboards and reports and interactive
um kind of systems
on like a per individual basis rather
than make massive changes to 10 million
line code bases. uh and that's you know
purely a limitation of the context
window and the ability of the LLMs to
scale to that size. So no I would say
there's still very much a call for
manually writing code but that's because
our legacy systems are so complex. You
don't think there are instances where if
you want to design something that is
truly performant uses crypto, it needs
to be really secure because it's a
financial payment system or something
like that where an experienced developer
can write very performant compact code
that the LLMs can't yet rival. I think
that's probably true in some very narrow
cases, but I would argue that even
there, the developer is better off
starting with an LLM to code first and
then seeing where they can make
improvements. So, it's a little bit like
a sculpture or if you're writing a short
story or something like that, just
having a skeleton to work from is much
more productive than trying to sit there
and come up with something on your own.
The LMS are surprisingly good at writing
performant code. You just have to get
them to write it in a particular way.
But where they do fail is understanding
how to call proprietary APIs because
these are not in the training set often
and especially if you have very complex
proprietary frameworks then they can
struggle to reason about them and for
that you definitely need manual
intervention. Where I think humans are
called for is in the higher level
architectural design in understanding
race conditions and uh coordinating
orchestrating across multiple systems in
a topology. Those kinds of things we
definitely need people in the look for.
>> Can we make goose more accessible by the
way?
>> Yeah absolutely. How would you want us
to do that? uh we have you know because
we're a registered investment advisor at
Squire so you know we have to comply
with all these rules as a regulated
entity and the administrative controls
uh prevented me from fully deploying
goose because I don't have those kind of
administrative rights on my machine
unfortunately so I've been I've been
negotiating with it to give me even more
access
but I guess if you really want to
unleash the potential it needs to have
access
>> we could do that I think you could still
get a lot of value from Goose without
that. And we do we do have experiments
of versions of Goose that will run for
example in a in a browser or in a fully
hosted environment
>> and those I think could be made uh
deployable in a organization like yours.
Yeah. But happy to do any any and all
and it's all open source so you know we
can tinker and modify however it needs
to be for any anyone's use case and we
encourage people to do that. Our
technology team in Sequoia is actually a
customer by the way. I know if a
customer is the right word. They're
using goose internally to build some of
our own applications. It's just that I'm
not able to full I can can't fully use
it myself yet, but I I I'll go negotiate
with them. I know people.
>> I think giving giving access to your
machine might be a little scarier than
most people's machines.
>> Well, it does have a safe mode. So, if
that helps at all, we're very happy to,
you know, show them how to set it up.
Thank you.
>> Do you have a and if you can't share
it's okay but I'm curious if you even
look at how much of the code base is
being written by goose or being written
by AI today and and do you have a guess
for how that might evolve over time?
>> Yeah, we are measuring it and there's
different numbers for different teams.
Like I said, engineers
in the most engaged engineers with goose
probably
generate about 30 to 40% of the code
they write um in existing legacy code
bases which are very very complex and
difficult for agents to work with.
>> Yeah,
>> as I told you before in in AI first
teams, it's pretty much all entirely
vibecoded. So goose itself, every PR
that's opened is written by goose. Um,
and there are many other similar
uh more sort of serious production apps
that we have that are also deployed that
way. But there there's still a while
before you get to the scale of every
single app being written Yeah. by
majority AI code.
>> Really cool. You mentioned at the
beginning of our conversation that
generative AI is the big difference
between, you know, what you were doing
with machine learning before and how
you're hoping to embrace AI now. We've
talked a lot about the kind of internal
productivity and developer productivity
parts of generative AI, but what about
in the customerf facing product? How do
you imagine generative AI will will
reimagine that?
>> So, I think you've got the same types of
productivity gains, maybe even more on
the customer front and the challenge is
just unlocking all of that utility with
the existing systems. And that's why
we're so excited about MCP and that's
why we work so hard to advance that
protocol along with Anthropic and
others. So we launched Square AI into
public beta not long ago. And Square AI
is essentially a way in which you can
talk to a goose-like
bot that uh understands all of your
merchant financials. And so you can say,
you know, build me a bar chart of um Q3
results, sales results, and you could
you could go much more detailed than
that. And you could say like, hey, if we
wanted to close an hour early and and
I'm running a wine bar or something like
that on Thursdays,
uh how much would I lose? And this is
actually a real example, by the way, uh
from a from a business. And it turns out
that
the people that wanted it closed, who
are the the the waiters, they made a lot
of their tips in that last hour. So they
decided after talking to Square AI not
to do that. Uh so yeah, we've got it
working for our customers on the
merchant side right away. We are working
on it on our entire product suite. Um,
and then as I said before, we see all of
our internal tools and all of our
products as essentially collections of
capabilities. And so we think tools like
goose and uh AI agents generally can
unlock their value by sitting on top of
them. And the challenge is just to
evolve the interface so that customers
understand it, are able to engage with
it and get all the value that that's in
there. So one of the things that Jack
talked about at a board meeting was that
when he breaks it down, it's
capabilities and interfaces.
>> Yeah. And sometimes people overemphasize
the capabilities without thinking about
the UI and how it delights the user or
enables the user to really fully embrace
a particular product. Um, and putting a
lot of emphasis on that. That's why we
have such an a big design culture.
>> Yeah.
>> And we honor design so significantly at
the company. Um Jack's also spoken about
the the potential of voice
>> as an important interface. We haven't
spoken about that. Do you see voice as
having a big role in some of our
products as well?
>> Yeah, absolutely. So just getting back
to the design point, like we're very
much committed as a company to putting
design and engineering on a pedestal. So
that's something that we've always done
from day one. I think uh even the very
first square reader that launched looked
beautiful in design and worked uh very
very simply and it hid an enormous
amount of complexity. We did the same
thing at Cash App. There's only a single
balance at Cash App, but it orchestrates
all sorts of money in the back end.
There's a whole amount of complexity
that it suppresses and that's the
uniqueness of design and engineering
coming together. So I totally agree with
that and this insight about capabilities
and interfaces with the AI agent as the
middleware was something that we talked
about quite deeply and I think we came
up with that insight probably end of
last year and we've really been pushing
to evolve all our products to think like
this and to to work on the interface
first because the interface is really
what the user cares about and what the
customer sees. They're not interested in
the fact that you have all of these
capabilities if they can't use them to
make a sale or to move money. That's
really what they care about. Uh so
that's where we're focused and um trying
to unlock all these capabilities to get
there as quickly as possible.
>> Maybe a last question for me. Um
>> any predictions? What does block look
like three years from now?
>> I think there are a lot of predictions
that are possible. I will say that given
our recommmitment to being a technology
company and really pushing the boundary
of open source but also increasing
access for everyone and increasing
autonomy for everyone uh is going to
push us much further along the road
towards coming up with things like goose
over and over again. So watch this
space, but I think in three years time
we'll see the next evolution of what
agents are like and uh how they're
deployed and used and if they're even
called agents anymore, if there's some
other new technology and I uh I hope and
I strongly believe that we'll be at the
forefront of that.
>> Okay, we're gonna have flocks of geese.
Any other any other predictions?
What's gonna what what's going to be the
big topic for next year? I think
unlocking utility will be a big topic.
>> Yeah,
>> I do think that many companies have
rushed towards AI without understanding
truly how to unlock utility from it. And
so they're concluding that AI is hype or
they're concluding that it's not worth
the investment and all these incorrect
um conclusions.
And I just think it's sitting on the
curve of capability versus utility. And
I I think you're really going to see the
companies that understand how to do that
next year. And that's going to be the
the topic of conversation.
>> Well, the pattern historically is that
we tend to overestimate the impact of
new technologies in the short run and we
underestimate it in the long run. I
mean, that's the consistent pattern.
There was a Stanford computer scientist
who coined this back in the 1970s. Yeah.
>> Uh, and I think we're there for AI. I
suspect 2026 in my mind will be the the
trough of disillusionment as people feel
it didn't quite live up to the
expectations and we'll double down and I
think it'll end up surprising us to the
upside by 2030.
>> Yeah, I think you're pretty much on the
money. I do think though there's a small
chance that the LLMs continue to improve
at the rate that they've been improving
and that's a really exciting prospect.
So if you look at some of the
performance of uh these models that are
coming out, you know, combining
diffusion and transformer technologies
and all of this, like there's there's a
lot to be had there. So I think there's
a small chance things could really take
off, but in the main I think you're
you're right. there's going to be a a
little bit of a plateau before we pick
up again. But I think the companies that
realize this and and stay the course and
really look at value for their core
reason for being that is in our case our
customers and economic empowerment
they'll do well and the companies that
are chasing dollars or hype will be left
behind.
>> I might be too easily excitable but I've
been excited about AI at every turn. I'm
not in any trough of disillusionment.
And when I see what you guys have done
with Goose and what's possible with it
and the fact that Goose is now writing
its own PRs, it's there there's so many
examples of just this is a magical new
technology and and really great people
are building really great things with
it.
>> Thank you. Thank you so much for saying
that
>> and thank you for joining us, Danji.
>> Yeah, absolutely. Anytime.
[Music]